Emi Martinez on the aura of Messi, his penalty shoot-out mind games, and his best career saves
20241223
https://youtu.be/w6wpY-xbHy4?si=VxJd4gPKSDy9g6LO
视频简介:
SUBSCRIBE TO MEN IN BLAZERS ON YOUTUBE! https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCwWgXewMHxlPkP5FkxoZvKQ?sub_confirmation=1

Aston Villa's No. 1, Emiliano "Dibu" Martinez, joins Rog to break down that incredible save against Nottingham Forest and rank it among his other career stops. Martinez also reveals how Lionel Messi is as a teammate in the locker room, how he plans his mind-games and tactics during penalty shoot-outs, and how he embraces his role as a villain. 

00:00 - THAT save vs. Nottingham Forest
03:02 - Goalkeeping mentality
03:52 - World Cup tattoo
05:26 - Lionel Messi
06:45 - saving penalties
08:23 - Emi, the villain?
10:11 - Emi's song 

#astonvilla #avfc #premierleague #argentina 

Check out the Men in Blazers Shop: http://shop.meninblazers.com/

Listen to all our Men in Blazers podcasts:
Wondery | https://mibcourage.co/43QaCW3
iTunes | https://apple.co/3oxDKj3
Spotify | https://spoti.fi/3B4eCpe
and all major podcasting apps. 

Connect with us on  social
Twitter | https://twitter.com/MenInBlazers
Instagram | https://www.instagram.com/meninblazers/
Tik Tok | https://www.tiktok.com/@meninblazers
Facebook | https://www.facebook.com/MenInBlazers
Threads | https://www.threads.net/@meninblazers

Rog on Twitter | https://twitter.com/rogbennett

Still want to know more about Men in Blazers? Right this way → https://meninblazers.com/


To opponents' team supporters, you have become your own kind of villain.
I just look at myself, I never look at the others.
I don't care what the fans say or the opponents or the managers.
I just help my back four and I try to make as many saves as I can.
My guest today is an elite goalkeeper who's the Magnus Carlsen of mind games.
six foot five inches of hip shaking crowd shushing penalty repelling menace
Just this week, he was named FIFA's best men's goalkeeper for the second time in three years.
And exactly two years ago to this day, he rather enthusiastically
accepted the gold glove trophy after winning the World Cup with Argentina.
It's an incredible joy to welcome Aston Villa's Mr. Emi Martinez.
Hello, Rog.
You all right, mate?
Oh, I am now, Emmy, because we are speaking just a few days after you made...
What for some goalkeepers would be a career-defining save against Nottingham Forest?
Somehow denied a header from Nicolas Dominguez at point-blank range.
It's like a behind the back save with added spin.
It's pot goalkeeping feet.
Like, part Mission Impossible stunt.
What did you see...
How did you experience it and how did it feel in that moment?
Well, to be fair, I was trying to get some space
to catch the cross, you know, I'm always, you know, I go keep a front footer to try and do the high claims.
And then I was
a lot of bodies in front of me, you know, and the ball was really good into the near post, they couldn't come.
And I think they, Gipsway, he flicked it and then Dominguez just had it from
I don't know, two yards, you know, and I was a good header actually towards the goal and then I saw the ball behind me.
And somehow we just try to drag it back into play to generate a little bit of power and then
I didn't touch it.
You know, normally it goes through your hands or you score an own goal if you try to bring it back.
So I have to spin the other side of the ball to make sure I don't touch it.
But we lost the game at the end, so a little bit frustrated.
The spin.
to reverse it for the goal line.
All that thinking in like that second.
Is the spin just instinct, Em?
I choose my hand followed, you know,
When I spun my back, my hand, my body followed.
So it's not something I thought at the moment, it's just, you know,
With that kind of save, you have to sweep.
And that's something you train.
Jamie Redknapp on English TV said he thought it was the greatest save of the Premier League.
era not the season of the era for you does it even crack your top five where do you rank this technically
For me, I don't really rank myself amongst the others, but for me it was,
It was my best one, my best technical skill goalkeeping save.
So, you know, and
and that's something I should be proud of because even at this age I keep improving.
which is amazing, the goalkeeper's journey.
And I know you've worked with a psychologist, David Priestley, to build that mindset.
at Arsenal you've called your meetings with him quote an investment into your weekend performances
Can you describe to us the mental process you go through in game to maintain positivity in key moments?
Yeah, he's one of the major keys for my success as well, you know, to keep me there.
you know, never too low and never too high, you know, keep me balanced, you know, keep me consistent.
and that's why for professional athletes it's a harder thing to do to maintain that consistency
for 60 games in a season over six, seven years or 10 years of career, you know.
And that's something that made me for my last six years of my career or seven has been
super consistent, improving every season and that's how I want to finish.
You famously have a tattoo on your calf of the World Cup trophy.
You won it two years ago.
And you had it inked in the exact spot on your leg where you saved that shot.
From Francis Randall Kona Moana, you get extra time at the final.
Argentina's first World Cup win since 1986.
What emotions do you experience on the daily when you look down on your leg?
you see that trophy looking back at you and you think about your own key part in winning it.
Yeah, it's amazing because we...
We made a bet with some of my mates in the national teams after we lost the first game.
I say, if we win the World Cup, we're going to do a tattoo with our names as well, with our shirt numbers.
So when I saved that ball and we won the World Cup, they all said, we all know where you're going to do the tattoo.
You have to do it there, you have to do it in that spot.
I just put the star in the exact spot where the ball hit.
So when it's in my tattoo, the 22 star is exactly where the ball hit.
And when you look at it, what do you feel?
Just proud.
You know, I came to England with such a young age, you know, without speaking the language.
different weather, different people and different culture.
Looking back 16 years ago,
I'm still proud to be here, being an award champion, winning so many titles and individual awards.
It just makes me proud.
It makes me keep going.
I always look back to help me to keep improving.
Little messy.
Rosario born, now Miami-based, human wonder.
He's called you the best goalkeeper in the world.
And you played with him on the Argentinian national team since 2017.
And I don't mean this as a weird question.
But as new players, when you join the national team, are you nervous when you meet him?
Because to the world, Messi is a god.
But after a while, does he just become like a normal teammate or does he remain in the locker room, on the field?
a gent who plays with goat aura?
No, to be fair,
With all the players, maybe yes, but for me, you know,
We all the same, you know, I'm very, you know, a fighting lad.
I make jokes to everyone.
he's got an aura that no one has.
You know, he's someone like,
you look up to, when you see him, whatever he does, you try to copy.
He goes to the gym, you go to the gym, he's got that aura.
that I think no one in football have.
But then
For me, everyone is the same.
We all joke, you know, we have meals together.
He's a lovely human being, but he has a super talent.
When you're born with a super talent that no one has, he's that man.
It's like John McGinn or...
Yeah, like guinea, yeah.
In that World Cup final, you've talked about how you briefed your Argentinian teammates how to take their penalties.
to beat your French opponent, Hugo Lloris.
You are incredibly difficult to score against.
You're famously difficult.
And you've said, quote, in those moments, I own my box.
Can you break down what makes you so bloody dominant in penalties, any kind of penalty?
But is it preparation?
intelligence is it learning your opponent's tendencies or is it just instinct
I think a penalty during the game is just a penalty.
a penalty shootout is a different sport and I'm pretty good at it you know that's how I see it you know
And this boat, I'm the best.
I never think I'm the best in...
in goal, normal goal, but in that moment, I think I beat the other goalkeeper.
you know, because it's five shooters.
I think
saving two, plus maybe three, you win the tie.
And I always back myself to say one or two, you know.
And that's how I go through it.
Even if you score the first one, I'm still going to save two.
If you score the second one, I'm still going to save two.
So I'm mentally...
really strong in those moments.
For goalkeepers, that's the only moment maybe they got a little bit of pressure.
because if they don't save the first two and they all keep at us, mentally they drop.
So that's why I really pushed myself to save one in the first three, just to push the pressure on the other goalkeeper.
I mean, it is a different sport, and you would probably Olympic gold if Penalty Shootout was an Olympic sport.
But what I admire about you, Emi, is that you've turned psyching out other players almost into an art form.
Whether it's asking officials to check Kingsley Coman had put the ball on the right spot.
Asking Manchester United's Bruno Fernandes why his then-teammate Cristiano wasn't taking the penalty.
or even shushing Lille supporters before a shootout in the Europa Conference League.
I mean, do you plan this kind of ***thousery in advance?
Or does it just happen in the moment?
A reaction to the players, to the fans, to the match, to the moment?
No, just at the moment, you know, I never plan anything.
You know, when I say the first
Then I tried to create a little bit of pressure on the players.
But no more than that.
people who do worse things and they get away with it.
But I miss a Conference League semi-final at home because
the ref gave me a yellow for asking for a ball.
So now I got a reputation that
that you know wind people up and that's not that's not correct
Two opponents, team supporters.
You have become your own kind of villain.
You definitely do lean into that, Emi.
Winding up opponents, winding up opposing fans...
It does feel sometimes that that can clash with the focus sometimes.
the zone, the concentration that you need to repel
all comers.
How would you balance the two in your own mind?
Or do you draw strength from others' weaknesses?
I just look at myself, I never look at the others.
When I go onto the pitch or on a penalty shootout, I go and win it.
That's all I care.
I don't care what the fans say or the opponents or the managers.
I just help my back four and I try to make as many saves as I can.
Last question for you, Emi Martinez.
This season, we're asking all of the players that we speak to,
If you could only listen to one song for the rest of your life, what would it be and why?
Tres estrellas en el conjunto, which is the Argentinian song after we win the World Cup.
Thank you, mate.
Big, big love.
Thanks, heavy.
Thanks, Philip.
Courage.
