Alexis Mac Allister: Arne Slot's Impact & Winning A World Cup
20241206
https://youtu.be/lVHQmipBtdw?si=P8so14zgpBbhOW3W
视频简介:
How exactly did Messi step up as a leader to drive Argentina to World Cup glory? What has Arne Slot done  to take Liverpool to the next level? What makes Brighton such a successful club?

Gary is joined by World Cup winner Alexis Mac Allister who also reveals the best manager he’s ever worked with and how Mo Salah has got him spending more time in the gym.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
✅ Subscribe Here: https://www.youtube.com/@therestisfootball?sub_confirmation=1
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
🎙️ Listen To The Podcast: https://linktr.ee/therestisfootball
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
🗞️ Sign Up To The Newsletter Here: https://mailchi.mp/therestisfootball/trif
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
📱 Follow Us On Socials: 

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/TheRestIsFootball

Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/therestisfootball/

Snapchat: https://story.snapchat.com/p/8c729650-9d54-407d-8c62-c658546eee44

TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@restisfootball

Twitter: https://twitter.com/RestIsFootball
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
00:00 - Intro
00:55 - The Mac Allister Name
01:55 - The Mac Allister Football Family
06:00 - From Argentinian To English Football
11:20 - Playing For Brighton
16:30 - Bombonera or Anfield?
18:00 - The Anfield Atmosphere 
18:58 - Klopp & Slot
29:00 - Liverpool’s Start
30:00 - VVD, Salah & Trent
34:20 - The Season Ahead
34:50 - Winning A World Cup
37:10 - Messi’s Leadership 
40:04 - The World Cup Final
44:00 - The Final Whistle
47:00 - Playing With Messi
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Get 30% off Hearth with the discount code "TRIF" at drinkhearth.com


Bombanero Anfield for atmosphere.
No, come on.
What was it like the morning that you got the news that Jurgen Klopp was going to walk away?
the end of the season.
I think everyone was in shock.
Why is he leaving?
The World Cup.
Is there someone that knows about World Cup this year?
I don't know what it's like to win one though, Alexis.
Could you please tell me?
Five million people on the streets.
And people used to run next to the bus for kilometers.
That was the most special moment in my football career.
for sure.
Trent Alexander-Arnold, Mo Salah, Virgil van Dijk, they're all obviously out of contract.
Is that something that players talk about?
I'm at the home of Alexis McAllister, who
as you'll all know is a World Cup winner currently playing in the
all-conquering Liverpool side under Arne Slott.
And I want to ask firstly, actually, about your name.
Macalester now that's a kind of bit of British about that but certainly at least
I'm Scottish about it or possibly Irish as well.
Yeah.
It is Irish.
I don't know why many, many people think it's Scottish.
Well, it's muck.
Muck everything is muck.
Yeah, it's actually Irish.
And a couple of months or weeks ago,
and I received a letter from my family in Ireland.
Asking you to play for them?
No, no, that's too late.
That's too late.
Yeah, that's too late.
But asking me to go there one day.
yeah i would love to i would love to and it feels weird because
I'm 25 and it just came now.
But hopefully, hopefully one day I can go and meet all of my family.
Talking of family, you have a remarkable football family, don't you?
I mean, so many members that have gone on to have careers in football
Talk to your family.
Who's played?
Yeah, for us, football is everything.
You have my dad,
play football with Diego Maradona exactly so very lucky guy
So yeah, my dad and my uncle both play football.
Then my two brothers play football.
Now one is playing in Belgium, the other one in Argentina, Francis and Kevin.
So there you have four players.
Then one of my cousins is playing in Malaysia now, Luciano.
and of course granddad's
play football as well, not professionally, but play football.
Yeah, football means everything to us and that's why we play and that's why we
we we really enjoy playing it you've got a kevin mcallister in the family
Was it named after the Home Alone?
I'm sure you've been asked this before.
It actually was.
Yeah, it actually was.
And he didn't know until he was 15 or 16.
He was basically doing an interview and they asked him,
And we were listening to it in the kitchen, and he was in the living room doing the interview.
So he said, no, I don't really know.
I don't think so.
And my mom was next to me and she was like,
yes it's because of the because of the film so it was it was
quite a funny funny moment and but yeah when he was 16 he found out that it was because of the of
There are worse things to find out.
What was it like growing up as a...
a youngster in Argentina.
I had the possibilities to
to go to different clubs and play football.
and with my two brothers it was always easier because you have them to
to play football whenever you want.
You must have been playing growing up.
Every day we really enjoy playing together.
So, yeah, I started in Argentinos Juniors.
a big club in Argentina where Maradona play.
Players like Riquelme, Cambiasso, Sorin, big, big players play there.
So we decided to go, all of us there.
You mentioned Riquelme as well.
I think he's widely regarded in Argentina as a very special player, wasn't he?
Yeah, for me, he was always my idol.
I always said that.
He was an amazing player.
He used to play as a 10.
Then he went to Barcelona where at
I think he didn't enjoy much.
We'll jump ahead to the World Cup, just briefly, just for this particular story.
the old borough wasn't it borough um from from messi towards louis van gaal is it true that that
because also Messi had a lot of respect for Riquelme and didn't like the way he was treated.
Is that generally the case?
And that's why he responded to that.
I'm not sure.
I'm not sure.
I couldn't say I couldn't say that.
What I know is that Messi and Riquelme have a very good relationship and of course,
Riquelme didn't have a good time with Van Gaal.
Di Maria neither.
But... That game was...
was a big one because I remember Dibu Martinez as well saying that
They spoke a lot before the game.
I don't know, it felt like...
They were not respecting us.
So yeah, it was a big game.
It was a nice one because we won it.
at the end in penalties it got a bit scary though didn't it yeah two goals right at the end and
And then the scenes in the dugout and the kind of bit of a fisticuffs and all that.
It was similar to the final because we were winning 2-0.
Without the aggressive nature between the two.
Yeah, very similar to the final.
So yeah, 2-0 and then they scored.
two goals out of nothing, just with two crosses.
Well, actually it was a free kick.
Clever free kick, actually.
Yeah, it was a nice one.
But yeah, after...
during the extra time I think we dominated the game again and won it on penalties but
It was a nice one.
It felt nice.
It felt like a war on the beach.
And as Argentinians, we really like it.
Talking about that nature of Argentinian football, what's the biggest difference between playing in Argentina and playing in England?
I went straight from Argentina to Brighton.
So for me it was a huge change.
In what way?
I think that the most difficult part was the physical side.
here the intensity is too high.
That would surprise people here because
I've played against Argentina on two or three occasions and one very famous game.
And the one thing I would have said is that they're very physical.
I mean, obviously brilliantly talented, but it always felt...
I played against Ruggieri and people like that, Brown.
They were pretty physical, I can assure you.
Is that...
Not the case?
The thing is, I think in Argentina it's more about the duels.
That's where we put the intensity.
And here is...
I don't know, the total distance you made, the highest sprint.
I think that's the difference.
Then when we go to deals, we go...
always 100%.
We don't care.
So yeah, in Argentina it's more about tackles and these kind of things, but here the physical
Yeah, the running aspects, the speed of the game.
Did it take you a while to adapt?
Yeah, yeah, it did.
I would say eight months to a year.
Yeah.
And when I arrived here, I didn't have...
I don't know, the physical aspect was a big thing for me, but I arrived and...
two or three weeks later, COVID started.
So I didn't have...
the trainings I needed for, I would say two months because we couldn't train.
Was that difficult?
Because I imagine, because...
there's no fans, people had to be apart, and you've just come to a new country.
That must have actually been,
That was so hard.
That was so hard for me.
And I was lucky because my mom was in England, so...
I had my mom and she used to cook and do all the things that
At that time, I didn't know how to do it.
So...
That was a big thing.
But yeah, it was a nice period.
when we're at home doing nothing, couldn't train.
then the league started again and there was no fans didn't felt right but
It is what it is.
After that, I think... Do you think that also affected your
Argentinian career because you played a couple of games didn't you when you were very young and then there was COVID and then you
Didn't get back into the side until a year or so before the World Cup.
Yeah, and it was because of Cody, but as well because I couldn't,
uh get the game time i wanted here in england so as i said it took me
Like a year to play regularly.
Were there times you thought, I'm not sure I can do it here?
Well, there was a time that I was or actually when I started playing, I was about to leave.
Basically, January was coming
and you know December and January you have lots of games in the Premier League,
So we had a lot of injuries in Brighton and...
there was no option.
So the manager had to say, okay, Alexis, it's your turn.
Was that Potter at that time?
That was Potter, yeah.
So yeah, I had the possibility to play,
a couple of games, score some goals.
And I think the manager started
like had more confidence on me from that time.
That was the moment where I started playing and I started feeling confident that I could
I could do it.
I think it's difficult.
I've played abroad as well in a couple of places and I think
There's an automatic assumption that football playing, you just
you carry on the same everywhere you go, but it's not necessarily like that when you move in country to adapt different language.
Did you speak English when you first arrived?
Well, I must congratulate you on how you've managed to learn the language really well.
And that's important, isn't it?
To feel part of everything.
Because you feel a bit like an outsider when you can't understand what anyone else is saying.
Yeah.
Even on the football pitch.
Yeah, it was so difficult.
The language was...
was a big thing for me and i did lessons for a year and a half and back to school
Yes, basically.
It was good.
It was good.
It's always nice to communicate and have relationships.
within the club.
So language
was was a big barrier at the at the beginning then the culture the weather
The weather, isn't it?
Yeah, it's beautiful.
Especially at this time of year from now until about March.
So let's say that in Argentina is a bit different in terms of the weather.
But yeah, I had to learn a lot of things.
As I said, I was young.
I didn't know how to live on my own.
So...
It was tough.
It was a tough year, but after that,
I love the country, the people, and I feel very welcome here in England.
that's good to hear what's Graham Potter like?
he's a very good coach
coach that needs time to build things.
Which you didn't get at Chelsea.
Yeah, exactly.
And which is normal, you know, in the clubs, you don't have that.
The time you need, it's always like this.
And I felt...
really sad for him because I know the coach he is, the human being he is.
Even though I didn't play the first year, I think he was always there to support me and that was
really important so I'm really grateful with him and I think he's a very good coach that's
hopefully we will see him soon on the pitch
It's a very well run club, Brighton, isn't it?
Was that a good place to start?
Definitely.
Definitely.
What makes them so different?
Because they're punching above their weight, realistically, aren't they?
As a football club.
They seem to find players like yourself, young players coming through from different parts of the world,
and then sell them on or keep them as part of their team.
They don't make many mistakes.
Well, I think everyone looks at the young players, the players they sell or these kind of things, but
What I have to say is that they have a big base in players like Louis Dank.
These leaders that are so important for the club, Dani Welbeck,
He's been there for a couple of years and he was amazing with the young players.
Yeah, they bring players that
They think they are good from the data.
They work a lot with data.
So...
Yeah, I think everyone at the club knows
the role and I think, as I said, I think that
the base that they created in Lewistown, of course, then you need the managers.
to play the young players, which is not easy.
They still seem to find the clever upcoming managers as well.
Yeah, exactly.
After Porto, they found the Serbi, which... What was he like?
He's quite frantic, quite passionate.
Yeah, he's Italian.
He's Italian.
he's a crazy guy he's a crazy guy i love him i love him i think he's the best manager i've ever had
Really?
Yeah.
And then I have coaches like Heinz as well in Argentina.
And so I have very good coaches.
What makes the Zerbi so special?
I think the passion he gives for football.
That's special and then his idea, his tactical side is amazing.
I don't know how to say it, but he makes your selfies.
feel good in the team.
Good motivation.
Yeah, so since the first day I met him, he was amazing with me and that's why I said he was the best coach.
When you go back to Brighton, how are the fans with you?
Amazing.
They're good?
They appreciate what you did for them.
I came back twice with Liverpool and...
They've always been amazing with me.
They know that the love I have for them.
And yeah, it's a really special place for me.
And they probably understand if a club like Liverpool comes calling.
It's tough to turn that down, isn't it?
What was that like when you got...
I don't know.
How did it happen?
Did you get a call?
Did your agent get in touch with you?
Did the club say, well, we've had an offer?
How did it work?
Yeah, it was with my agent first.
Of course, you said Liverpool is a big club, so it's so hard to say no.
But at the same time, there was
I released Glow, so everything was a little bit easier, let's say.
And I don't think the fans understand that Liverpool comes and is
It's a big club because it happened with players that went to Chelsea or...
other clubs and the fans don't like it.
I think it's just the way you live, you know?
Well, fans never like it when their best players go.
I mean, you can understand that, can't you?
As a footballer, I think...
But sometimes players leave in a certain way that makes it uncomfortable for them to go back, but that didn't happen with
Yeah, exactly.
I think it's the way you live, you know.
As I said, there was a release clause and for me it was easier for the club.
But I always respect them.
And that's the most important thing because I'm really grateful with them and that's why I've done it.
as I say I have big love for them
I spent three years and a half there, so really grateful for them.
And I didn't want to live in a bad way.
I think it was the best for everyone.
What was it like walking through the doors at Anfield?
So special, so special because it's a big club.
And you've been at La Bombonera?
I was going to ask you actually, that was one of my questions that I got planned in my head was Bombanero or Anfield for atmosphere?
Nah, come on.
I went there with Diego Maradona, you may have heard of him.
It was the most unbelievable atmosphere.
I mean, they...
nuts man as was Diego he was trying to hang over the balcony bizarre but
Yes, it's crazy.
It's crazy.
And I think they're different.
Both are amazing.
And I think in Europe, Liverpool's fans are the best.
And I'm not saying it because I play for Liverpool.
I know it's hard to understand it, but I think they are the best or one of the best.
but in Argentina everything is different because in Argentina we are used to sing
songs like the whole game.
So it creates something different, whether here I think it's more
a reactive thing from the fans.
when you're going well they start getting there or sometimes when you're struggling they
Yeah, exactly.
It depends what is happening during the game and in Argentina it's different.
But yeah, it's so hard because at the same time, I support Boca Juniors since I was a kid.
yeah those nights under the lights at Anfield um
particularly perhaps in, say, a second leg of how it used to be, well, it will be in the knockout stages of a Champions League game.
That must be something else.
Even if it's just a Premier League game, but that thing when you walk out, the lights are on, they're all...
You never walk alone.
Yeah, I'm really looking forward to a second leg of Champions League.
Given how you started in the Champions League, I think you might get one.
hopefully hopefully hopefully yeah but yeah under the light is easy
I don't know if it's magic the other day against Real Madrid or when you have big games
you could hit them and they are really behind us.
I think they know that we need them and that's so important to create that connection between fans and
and the team, so yeah, I really love them and really looking forward for that second leg
in the Champions League, hopefully.
I'm sure you will.
It'd be amazing.
You started under Jurgen Klopp, now you've got Arne Schlott.
Firstly, Jurgen Klopp, what was he?
I mean, we all see him, he's got that incredible enthusiasm as well, a little bit like Deservey, but...
and did an amazing job there over a long period of time.
What was he like to play for?
He was amazing from the first day.
or actually before I signed for Liverpool I had a call with him and
I don't know, since that moment I could feel that we were going to do
great things and I really enjoyed my time with him.
did he try and sell the club to you did he sell himself to you or how did he he didn't need to
Well, I know.
I suppose you'd heard of him.
But, yeah, I just want to know what he said to you, really, to entice you to – he probably didn't need to say much –
But you probably wanted assurances that you really, you know, you were going to play.
No, basically he said that there was going to be
a change in terms of midfielders for the team.
he wanted me to be part of it and
and he compared me with players like Gundogan, for example, that he managed in Dortmund.
He said that we had similar things and that I could be an important player for
for Liverpool and for his team.
So...
That was enough to say I need to go there because
I was in a moment where I won the World Cup just six months ago.
I wanted to go to a club that I had the opportunity to win trophies.
And I wanted...
to go to a club where I could feel important, you know, where I could feel that
I could have a history there.
Yeah, that was enough to tell myself that I wanted to play for Liverpool.
As a coach and as a person, what was he like to play for?
Demanding or?
Yeah, very demanding, very demanding.
Was a human being.
He's amazing.
And I...
I think it's hard when you are a coach or when you are a player to see that
that part.
But I think when you are a good human being, then everything is easier.
And he was very honest.
Every time he needed to say the truth, he said it.
So that's a really important thing for me.
And he was always there for me to support me because
I remember at the beginning, we didn't have a six, so I had to start the season with
playing as a six.
Where do you like to play?
What's your favorite role?
uh it's hard for me to say it but i like to be
in the middle.
If I'm in contact with the ball, then I'm happy.
So, yeah, I started as a six last season and...
People used to complain or criticize a little bit, and he was always there to support me.
and defend me, so that was the most important thing for me.
What was it like the morning or afternoon, whenever it was that you got the news that
Jurgen Klopp was going to walk away at the end of the season he was crazy because he'd not been there that long
No, and it was crazy because we didn't know anything and...
There was a day where I went to training and
Normally report used to be 1030, 1045
And when I was on my way to a training ground,
We received a message that we had a meeting at 10.30.
So it was quite weird.
And when I got to the training ground, I'm next to Salah in the dressing room, so I asked him,
What's going on?
And he said the manager is leaving
Really?
You got the news from Mo Salah?
From Mo Salah, yeah.
And he was a surprise.
First assist he's done for you, probably.
Probably not the first.
But it was a surprise because no one expected it.
I think at that time we were first or second in the league, so it was a good moment.
So there was no reason to leave.
But yeah, we had a meeting, basically he...
explain or he said that he was living and
We just had to accept it.
What was the mood like?
I think everyone was in shock because no one expected it.
That was the main thing.
Why is he leaving?
But we understand that it was his decision.
We really respected it.
and he earned the right to do whatever he wanted.
But we understood straight away that
we had to finish the season in a good way.
Do you think it affected you though?
Because you kind of went off the ball towards the end, but you did have injuries.
I don't think it affected us.
No.
No.
Maybe that could be the
excuse and we could blame him but I don't think that affected us and
we just ran out of energy at the end and
When you compete against teams like Arsenal and City, you have to be at your best.
No, I don't think Jurgen's departure affected us
But, of course, it was a surprise for everyone.
Alexis, you've got a new manager.
Arnishlock, what a start he's made.
Because it must have been incredibly difficult.
fill in the boots of Jurgen Klopp because he's been so dominant at the football club
and so impactful at the football club and so successful at the football club that to follow in his footsteps, but boy, what a start.
Yeah, I think everyone thought that it was going to be difficult, but not Arne.
Not Arne, I think...
since the first day he was he was really clear with the things he wanted and
On and off the pitch.
Did he make an impact immediately?
Yeah, I would say immediately.
I mean, I was in preseason because of course I had...
international break after the season.
So we had a couple of days off.
But when I arrived to America,
I could hear the boys and they were so happy with Arne.
They said it was quite different, especially in possession.
Tell us how.
I mean, we've had our opinions on this podcast with Alan and Micah.
that he seems to slow things down.
No, definitely.
It's a mix of the old and certainly something of the new.
and kind of rotating in midfield and there seems to be a bit more patience
slightly more thoughtful defensively.
Would that be right?
Tell us what you think.
Yeah, I think the main thing is in possession we are more patient.
Defensively, I would say
similar to what we used to do with Jurgen.
It depends on the other team as well.
So we changed a lot the pressing in terms of the other team.
I think the main thing is in possession.
where we are more patient, we have different patterns and different movements to
to understand where the spaces are and try to exploit them.
And I think we are still getting into the idea.
Do you think he's more of a perhaps tactical coach?
than than Clock because Clock was about passion wasn't it high energy Gagin press and yeah
Yeah, for sure.
That's the main difference, the tactical side.
As I said, I think it's about finding the free man or the space.
and try to attack it and be more patient when you have the ball.
Does it suit you?
Yeah, for sure.
I would say so.
And yeah, for me, it's different as well because it's a different position.
We spoke before that last season I played as a six.
and now it's more double six or sometimes I could even play as an eight or ten, whatever you want to call it.
Have you always had that ability to be versatile within that midfield role?
Or have you learnt it?
No, I learned.
I learned.
I started playing as a 10.
In Argentina, normally the system is four, two, three, one, so I used to play before
behind the nine and used to be more of an attacker.
It changed when I arrived to Brighton.
And since that moment, I think I learned and understood the game a little bit more.
And that's what I try every single day, try to understand.
positions or the spaces I need to
to attack on this kind of thing.
So yeah, it's something that I learned and I think it's
It's really important to a player.
I spoke to...
Rodri last week, who's also on the podcast, and he was saying similar things that he thinks about his position a lot.
He talks about playing the position a lot and also he watches all the games back.
Do you watch your games?
Not really.
I used to do it, but now that we have a lot of games, sometimes you need...
the time to relax as well.
But no, I don't really watch the games back.
I don't think it's necessary because at the club we have everything.
normally the day after or two days after we watch the
some of the things that we need to improve so
If I have time I do it, but not very often.
Are you surprised of how well Liverpool have started?
given the fact that they had a new man in charge, even though you could immediately tell that he knew what he was doing.
yeah for sure for sure and i said it the other day like um
I didn't expect us to be in the place we are now because
because I think we are in a transition.
As we spoke before, from Jurgen to Arne,
new ideas, different things.
But I think the team got it quite quickly.
Thank you.
And we really like the idea.
So we enjoy playing this football and I think that's why we are in the place we are.
You mentioned that sometimes you play as two number sixes and there's an eight.
kind of switch around.
It's mainly been Gravenberg, yourself,
and Curtis Jones, hasn't it?
How does that work?
That new midfield, if you like.
How have you felt in it?
Does it feel comfortable now?
Yeah, for me it feels very good, and I think for the other guys as well.
But yeah, we have the freedom to do whatever we want.
sometimes, because sometimes it's about staying in your place as well
and as I said before, spaces and these kind of things.
but at the same time we have the freedom to do whatever we want and we do have players like Ryan
Curtis, Dom, Endo, Harvey.
We have a lot of good midfielders.
You have to give them that freedom.
It feels really, really good because you can have that connection and those little passes
between us and you will like it.
I always think midfielders, it's very important for them to have a leader behind them.
And in Virgil van Dijk,
How much of a leader is he?
Is he vocal on the pitch?
Yeah.
speaks a lot yeah but that's good that's good yeah because you need you need players like that
And he leads by the example.
He's one of the leaders with Moe, with Robbo, Allison we have.
experienced players that really help us to be better players.
And then they are so important because
For example, the game against Southampton.
It wasn't a good game from us.
We were struggling a little bit, losing 2-1.
And that's the moment when you need players to step up.
And that was the meeting at halftime where the manager said,
now I want to see the players to step up and
That was Virgil and Ansala playing an amazing second half.
That's why you need them.
They are...
good people, they help you if you need and then on the pitch they do the work.
You knew I was going to ask you about Mo Salah.
I mean...
Incredible player.
He's done it for so long.
He's so consistent, even on the days where it's perhaps not working for him, he'll end up with a
a goal from somewhere or even an assist what's he like I mean you sit right next to him you said in the dressing room we all know what he's like as a player
What's it like as a person?
Yeah, first thing, consistency is key, and he showed it.
amazing and when you have him you know that he's gonna deliver and get the goals and assists and
that you need, so that's why he's so important.
And then off the pitch he demands a lot from
from him and from his teammates.
So since I arrived to Liverpool, I think I changed a little bit my routine.
before I didn't used to go to the gym as much as now.
And that's because of him.
Is that because you were changing next to him and he had better abs than you?
Or is it more for your football?
Yeah, that's one.
thing but the other thing is that he tells you that you need to be professional you need to go to a gym and
or do this kind of thing.
So, yeah, it's a pleasure to work with him and
I think he really helps the players around.
I want to actually, for no particular reason other than he's one of my favourite footballers, Trent Alexander-Arnold.
Because technically, the passer of the ball, I think he's extraordinary.
Yeah, I think...
Everyone can see the quality like he's amazing on the ball and
I know there was a lot of talking about his defensive side.
But I think he's amazing as well.
So defend that.
There's a reason I asked you.
A little bit about those three.
Trent Alexander-Arnold, Mo Salah, Virgil van Dijk.
They're all obviously out of contract at the end of the season.
Is that something that players talk about in the dressing room because
you'd want them to stay, wouldn't you?
Yeah, of course, there is a lot of jokes, let's say, but...
At the end, it's a personal thing and we are going to respect the club and him and them.
in whatever decision they they make of course we want them to to stay with us but
As I said, it's a personal decision and I would never get there.
Do you think you can go on to win the league this season?
It's too early, probably, but it's great to have a lead, isn't it?
Yeah, it is early, but we have a nice difference now.
So...
Yeah, it is possible, of course.
And we are there, we are candidates, let's say.
But we need to keep going because it's too early.
There's many, many games to come.
have Champions League as well.
So, yeah, we need to keep working.
keep getting into Arne's idea because I think we have a lot of things to improve.
yet but we are in a good way to woke up
The World Cup.
If there is someone that knows about World Cup, it's you.
I don't know what it's like to win one though, Alexis.
Could you please tell me?
I don't know.
I mean, it's magical.
It's so special.
Like,
I think we are still
realizing what it means because it's something that's it's not easy and
I don't know, the most important thing for me was
when we went back to Argentina and you could see people's faces.
That was so, so special.
Millions of people out in the street.
There was 5 million people in the streets and we went with the bus and
And people used to run next to the bus for kilometers.
So you could see people crying, smiling, saying a lot of things.
That was the most special moment in my football career, for sure.
And also I think it added to it because I think apart from
obviously France fans and perhaps some Ronaldo supporters,
I think the rest of the world really wanted Argentina to win it.
because of Messi.
Did it feel like that for the players?
Did it feel like you wanted, not just for yourselves,
but for him, because it was the one thing that was perhaps missing.
Yeah, for sure.
I think everyone that shared...
dressing room with Lionel wanting him to
to win this World Cup.
It was a special occasion and
He's the best.
He's the best footballer ever.
I don't disagree.
I mean, I obviously played against Diego a few times and I never thought
I never thought I'd ever say that there was a better player than Diego Maradona.
I think ability-wise, almost the same.
Amazingly similar.
But you have to give it to the longevity and you have to say that Diego had his issues.
which affected his career, whereas Messi's not.
But we all know how great he was as a player.
And you agree with me that it's the best of all time.
His leadership perhaps surprised a few people.
We've all seen the interview perhaps before the Copa America game
in Brazil.
And I assume it was probably a similar thing in the World Cup.
He really came out, didn't he, as a leader?
Yeah, I think he received a lot of...
criticism from from fans in Argentina how tough was that for him do you think I think it was tough
I think he never shows it, but it was tough because
He gave everything for the national team.
He gave everything for his country.
And he got to finals that he couldn't win.
and when you are the best player of course you get the criticism but
He was always there.
He kept going, kept going, kept going.
And at the end he was.
he got the work, but in terms of leadership, I think he,
He improved it a lot, like he grew into that and he's an amazing leader for us.
He doesn't speak much, but he speaks when, when we really need him.
So.
for example before we go into the pitch he always speaks and says
the things that he thinks or...
or that he wants.
And that's really special for us.
But as I said, his leadership is amazing.
It's not just by word, but it's more by example.
Didn't start well either, did it?
Saudi Arabia.
No, it didn't start well.
That must have been a bit of a shock.
Yeah, it was.
It was.
But we always believed in ourselves.
To be fair, we had like five or ten minutes after the game where
Everyone.
was really sad and no one could speak.
But after five or 10 minutes, our leaders
Leo, Otamendi, these kind of players, spoke and said the truth like,
It was up to us, still up to us.
It wasn't easy.
But then at the end, we got the win against Mexico.
From that on, everything was much easier.
That was that moment with obviously Di Maria in too.
to Messi and it was a special moment, wasn't it?
It was like,
Argentina's World Cup had started.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think that game, the first half, you could feel
the nervousness from the fans or even for us, it wasn't easy.
We were nervous in the studio and I was watching that game.
We were there.
And obviously, like most of the world, I wanted Argentina to win it for Messi if it couldn't be England.
of course, obviously, which sadly it wasn't either.
But let me take you forward to the final.
Because describe what happened on that day.
What's it like on the day?
Can you remember it?
Do you remember what you were like before the game?
Were you nervous?
Excited?
Yeah, during the workout something crazy because I normally get
really nervous before the games, but during the World Cup it didn't happen.
I don't know why.
I don't know why.
Not even before the final.
and so basically when we when we are with the national team we have a lot of time off like
we can do whatever we want
And I remember that night I slept like 10 hours.
I bet you didn't sleep 10 hours after the game.
No, no, for sure not.
But yeah, 10 hours during the night.
Then we had lunch.
siesta and siesta for two hours and a half and
I couldn't believe that because, you know, you get nervous, work a final, biggest stage on...
and I had I don't know how but I slept two two hours and a half before that and
I went into a game, I think it was because I really trusted my...
my team and my teammates to do well.
And it was an amazing final for neutrals.
And you played a significant part.
Yeah, I think everyone plays a part.
But that goal in particular there?
what a move what a beautiful bit of football that was
It was nice.
I think it was the best goal of the World Cup.
because of the way I think everyone play one touch.
Amazing counter attack.
And after Di Maria, of course, an amazing goal.
I felt really good.
I felt really good when people asked me
was the best game I've ever played.
I always say the final because I felt
really good and I felt important for the team.
You said you felt really good.
You're playing in a game, you're dominating it.
France can't get a kick.
They're just not in it.
And then suddenly, from two and a lot, you're two-two.
I mean...
You couldn't have felt that good then.
That must have been like, what on earth is happening here?
For sure, it wasn't easy.
when they score the 2-1,
I don't know.
I was still confident in ourself.
But then after this,
the equalizer
It was so hard.
It was so hard.
I think everyone got nervous at that time.
It wasn't easy.
But then...
Again, like against Holland, we went to extra time, we showed again.
And then it happened again.
And then it happened again.
So it was a crazy game, I think, for neutrals, as you say.
It was the most extraordinary match, I think the most memorable in my lifetime.
I probably played in the second most memorable match of all time, which was Mexico 86, the quarter final.
because of Diego's two goals, one with the hand and obviously one was the best goal probably ever scored.
But to live that, to be part of the team, to go through that emotional roller coaster,
And then the penalty shootout.
I always thought you'd win a penalty shootout because of your goalkeeper.
Because I'm not doing any work out here.
I think he's one of the best today.
Absolutely.
Did you see the save he made today?
a week or so ago against Juventus yeah
He was amazing.
I think he's one of the best.
He strikes me as quite a personality.
People doesn't like him.
He's the master of shithole.
But I think you need one of these guys.
in your team you need to win it's one of them that
When they are in the other team, you hate him.
But when you have him in your team, then he's...
He's one of the best, so really happy for him because he worked really hard.
he struggled a little bit to play football, then he had the possibility to play for Arsenal.
and since that moment he showed what he's capable of so
really happy for him because he's a nice guy as well.
How was the penalty shootout?
to be fair it couldn't have gone better yeah to be fair I suffer more the penalty shooter against Holland and
this one because yeah I think they missed the second and the third yeah
So yeah, you could feel that we were going to become champions.
It wasn't that bad.
Final whistle goes, the end of the penalty shootout.
The penalty is scored.
Can you remember how you felt?
Do you remember the emotion?
I was in shock.
I was in shock.
I didn't know what to do.
I remember the first thing I did, it was...
to look at behind the bench because my family was there.
That must have been beautiful.
That was so special.
That was so special.
My family and some friends.
that they they they left everything to go and
there for the final i thought he's gonna say they left with five minutes to go no no no
imagine that I don't think you could from that game so
So yeah, it was so special to have them in the stands and to watch that game.
yeah just looked looked at them and walk and
Say thank you to the referees.
I don't know why.
I don't know.
I was just in joke I didn't know what to do to be fair
it didn't feel real real yeah so so yeah so so special
Scaloni, what was he like?
I mean, he did an amazing job, clearly, and he's hardly lost a game
in all the time that he was there yeah
He's an amazing human being and everything is easier when it's like this.
He got the team in a really difficult moment for the country and for the national team.
after Russia.
And since that moment I think he understood what Messi needed.
What did he need?
He needed a good defense and people who
could run and do the dirty job for him and then
Just pass the ball to him and play for him, basically.
but it's not easy because at the end
I think everyone, every manager that it was before Scaloni tried that as well.
But it's hard winning major tournaments.
Yeah.
It's hard.
It's so hard.
What's it like playing on the same team as Lionel Messi?
At the beginning, it wasn't easy because, you know, you get nervous,
You get a bit self-conscious because I know me with my first touch, I'd have been going, oh.
God, this is so embarrassing.
I mean, he's so good.
Was there a degree of that?
Sure, for sure.
That was the first
face, let's say, and I wasn't
It wasn't easy.
But then when you meet the guy and you speak with him, then...
you realize that he's just a human being, that he's an amazing guy and
You just need to understand him on the pitch and everything is easier.
I have a really good connection with him on the pitch.
And I think that's really, really important because I play
and I move when I see what he does.
So I react to his movement.
Even before he's got the ball or when he's got the ball?
No, even before.
I tried to be in different spaces, not to...
into his space or because at the end he's always had like
two or three guys on him.
So...
There is a part of the pitch that is free if there is two or three with him.
So I think it's about understanding those kind of things and that
Give the ball to him and he will do what he wants and what he knows.
And sometimes, and even during that World Cup, many occasions, you must look at him and go, wow, how does he do that?
even even training I woke up was score fantastic, but even in training if you
You can give him whatever pass you want.
His first touch will be amazing.
That's the start.
And then, as I said, you make a movement and he will see it.
The pass he gave to Molina against Netherlands.
How did you suggest him?
Do you know what I was thinking?
I don't know, sorry to interrupt, but when I watch Mercy,
He sees things that you can't see from the stand.
And it's almost like he's playing the game.
as an out of body experience where he's looking at himself from above and has a whole view of the field.
I mean, how does he see those?
Do you ever go to him?
How do you see that pass?
no not really because that's what people forget sometimes isn't it we we
We're obsessed with stats now.
It's goals and assists, but it's not that, is it?
It's not that.
It's the little things he does on the halfway line when there's four players around him and you go, oh, he's done.
And then he finds his way out.
I think footballers look perhaps for more of that than perhaps fans do.
I don't know what do you think I think he's got a
a god apart, like he can do whatever he wants.
everything looks easy for him
The difficult part is to understand that you are not at the same level as him because that's the truth.
If you understand that and you play for him, then everything is easier.
I really enjoy playing with him.
That's the only thing I can say.
I'm really lucky and really lucky and everyone on the national team is really lucky to play with him because
There won't be anyone like him.
No, I agree.
When you won the World Cup, were you more pleased with Messi than yourself?
No.
Good.
Sorry, but no.
No, it's the right answer.
Sorry, but no.
No, it's the right answer.
I thought I'd ask the question because the reaction of the team towards him.
I mean, everyone was pleased.
I think the easy answer would be yes, but...
Like, it is what I dreamed since I was a kid.
I want a World Cup.
we want to work on and it felt amazing.
But first, because of me, because of the
the work that I've done for so many years because of the work that my family has done for me.
But yeah, of course that I was happy for him as well.
What a way to finish.
We won a World Cup.
I envy you.
I envy you.
And I also want to say a big thank you for this interview.
It's been fascinating, Alexis.
Thank you very much.
I got a present for you.
As you know, in Argentina we drink
Matches.
A lot of matches.
Yes.
So basically... Is this mate for me?
No, but this is made with yerba mate, with herbs.
So yeah, it's a present for you.
I hope you like it.
There you go, the man with the golden boot.
And a silver mic, what an honour.
We're up against it here because I know you normally prefer bags of crisps to cans of drinks.
They go well together, Alexis.
I fancy our chances, though, so if you don't like hearth...
I'll play Liverpool's next match in my underwear.
never make promises like that thank you thank you thank you very much for for coming i hope you liked
Half?
I did.
First half and second half.
So thank you very much.
That's a pleasure.
