Emiliano Martínez's Insight Into Penalty Shootouts | adidas
20240208
https://youtu.be/Flcl9lIr9VI?si=7HAR2bLQDLEZmAfO


But sometimes you can do, oh, my God, I need to save it, or if I save it, or the fans, or... And it goes through your mind, you know?
That's my question.
How do you deal with these thoughts?
The moment of the strike is when I say, OK,
This is my moment.
I need to focus only on myself.
Brilliant.
Oh, chilly, mate.
It's really, really cold.
It's been 12 years in this country and too freezing for me.
I've got a little break between games so I'm going to work a little bit on penalties
and mental side it's good to always you know when you when you're successful winning tournaments big tournaments
So it's good to keep trying and improve yourself.
It's a big moment for me.
I always feel like it's an opportunity to
to shine and to show how good I am, how strong I am in penalties.
I never think I'm gonna be the hero.
It's just about, you know, enjoying the moment.
since a very young age.
Since I remember, probably seven, eight, I've always been lucky in penalty shootouts, you know.
win more than lose.
When you're young, you just play for joy.
You know, when you're older,
You play for a team, you play for a club, so you need to perform in a different way.
It's hard to go to every goalie's mind, but sometimes goalies, when you go to a penalty shootout,
they can have a little bit of pressure on themselves, thinking, oh, if you don't take one, then everyone will look at me and...
and they would think I had a bad game or I'm not good enough.
Yeah, good to hear.
Emi or Djibouti?
Emi, Emi is fine.
Yeah, Europe or Mami.
If you come over here, let me explain it to you real quick.
This is your brain activity right here.
and then we see the different brain states and what we are trying to help you with is to better get into the zone.
So when you're in that optimal brain state, then the sound will play from the speaker, this one right here,
And this will indicate how well you're managing pressure and how well focused you are right now.
So Emi, can you go through your routine and just explain a little bit what you would do in the game, please?
I move side to side.
It's just a bit for me to get that fire up.
Sometimes quicker, sometimes slower, depends how I feel during the day.
And then when it's about to strike,
is when you think, OK, I don't want to go early, because they wait for you.
They're still looking at you.
They're very clever nowadays, so it's about
moving a little bit to not show them any sign of which way I'm going.
and then fire at the last minute, you know, because if I'm going there, by the moment he's about to strike, he sees me, so they would put it that way.
Make sure I don't open my legs too wide to be ready to push.
First, we're going to do penalties towards this side.
Five to this.
Then we'll do five either direction.
You don't know which side.
And then we do five random.
Remember the sound?
Yeah.
OK, so it's this mode.
When I say focus, that's when you focus and you get clear.
You know what I mean?
So we start with the first five.
Focus.
Okay, good.
Nice.
Nice, good.
All right, three more.
Focus.
Nice, great.
Nice.
When you have this fluid motion that you had, for example, at the World Cup, it was really fluid.
The timing was perfect.
That's when you make, say, timing.
Timing.
Timing.
You have the pressure of getting there, right?
Because if you're basically here with the hand, it's a higher chance of you saving it, right?
So that's why you really extend negative pressure as something that can limit you.
to perform at your best.
So it can also limit you from jumping as far if your movement is not fluid.
So that's why you want to really be optimally focused to get to the furthest distance and have the highest percentage of saving a penalty.
And it's that confidence that makes you deal with that pressure.
If you're not sure where you're going to go and you change your mind during the run,
That's it.
You don't say that.
Some of the goalies, you know when he's running.
They keep changing, oh, West is going low, high, mid.
I'm choosing one side.
I'm not thinking he's going mid, low.
until I think it is going right.
And I mean, that's part of dealing with the pressure is the preparation, right?
Yeah, but the preparation in the World Cup, in the final,
Messi told me that he was going legs high.
So I prepared myself.
The body shape, yeah, it's going there.
But then I dive right, the height, and the ball went low.
So my preparation was to go high, then in the moment,
went low, so I'm more about my intuition as well.
I know it's true about the stats.
Just read what's in front of you at the moment.
Oh.
Good strike still.
When, for example, you're going to shoot out, let's say, the first four score, and the pressure comes for the fifth, how do you deal with that?
The first thing you need to believe in yourself, you know?
No more distracting them or trying to go into their head.
I think more about
my timing, you know, my footwork.
Let's say, if you guessed the side,
then you don't save it, then it's off.
You know, you get upset, but you're doing something good, which is guessing the site.
And then the problem is when
It's a penalty shootout.
and you go nowhere near, you think, oh, it's not my day, you know?
But I always think, I always say one.
You know, I could have saved two easily.
You know, in five, you save two, you win.
I've got less chances, you know.
Oh!
Your body shape since you go in there, 100%.
You do?
Yeah.
Can you specify that a little bit?
His body shape, his hand is stuck to his body.
You know, when he's going across, he leaves his thumb a little bit more.
But this one, he kept the hands.
close to him, so I knew he was going that way.
Brilliant.
Your focus was very, very clear.
And that's why I even noticed it in your eyes.
In your eyes, now you're excited.
Now it's the part that you love.
All right, last one, last one.
Let's go.
Focus.
He's done something different now.
Because he doesn't want to show me the body shape.
You see, no?
He's getting to you.
You do your thing.
It's going hard.
Did you see?
Dirty.
We're going to look into the data now.
First of all, you need a proper challenge.
For you, it's like, if you're under-activated,
There's no point to do it.
Yeah, it's normal.
Was that always like that?
That's my question to you.
Were you like, because it's a character thing, it's a personality answer, right?
Yeah.
No, no, I need to challenge, yeah.
I need someone to wind you up, to fire you up, to give you feel.
Because the one thing I find really interesting, you're 85% more in the zone
when it goes anywhere compared to left or right.
When the challenge is really high, you're actually more in the zone.
And I find that actually quite fascinating, you know, because it really represents
personality and the way you act and this kind of stuff.
Yeah, it makes me more comfortable.
Yeah, it makes me more comfortable.
It does, yeah.
I play to be fired up and to lose all my nerves.
But sometimes you can do, oh, my God, I need to save it, or if I save it, or the fans, or... And it goes through your mind, you know?
Ask my question, how do you deal with these thoughts?
The moment of the strike is when I say, OK, this is my moment.
I need to focus only on myself, you know?
Okay, so in that moment it's like switch off.
Switch off and it's me against the ball against him, not against, you know.
3 billion people watching on the TV in the World Cup finals.
It's as simple as that.
You know, I used to say,
message to shoot penalty to to get that confidence and i can't save anything
So it doesn't help.
It doesn't help.
for your confidence for me so i know not practically too much okay i got it all right
Thank you so much, appreciate it.
It was a pleasure.
Well, one thing we found was that
He really needs the challenge.
So with that, he increases actually with the focus.
It's quite fascinating.
I got 85% I think when I'm more in the zone and the pressure is there and I focus more
when the pressure's on, which is interesting, you know, and that's something that
that I do, you know, in the pressure zone is when I play the best.
When you're a young goalkeeper, you listen to what the club says and you try to do everything for the club.
but sometimes you need to listen to yourself and just follow your gut.
and take risks.
If you don't take the risk, you won't have big rewards.
You have to put in your hard work, your technique, your mental preparation, all these kinds of things, and then you just give it your best shot.
And if all those things come together,
That's like a puzzle.
Focus.
When there's that amount of pressure, I really enjoy it because I always think it's a game.
At the end of the day, it's just football, so you can win or lose.
But it's always good to have fun.
Thank you.
